# Which version to choose? #

Parrot comes in a lot of shapes and sizes in order to fit in all the possible hardware and users needs.

Depending on what hardware configuration and scope you have, consider these options:

## Parrot 4.x Security Edition (x86_64) ##

As the name suggests, this is the full edition.
After the installation you have a complete out of the box pentesting workstation loaded with a big variety of tools ready to use.
Highly reccomended for Desktops and Laptops with at least 4GB of RAM, in order to have a smooth experience while multitasking.

[Download](https://parrotsec.org/security-edition/)

## Parrot 4.x Home Edition (x86_64) : ##
This version of Parrot is aimed for a lightweight installation which provides the essential tools to start working.
It relays on the same repositories as the Full Edition, letting you choose most of the programs you want to install later on.
Reccomended for those users who are familiar with Pentesting Distros and need to create a minimal one.

[Download](https://parrotsec.org/home-edition/)

## Parrot 4.x Home & Security OVA ##
Purposed for a quick VM setup, this version is intended to work on your favorite virtualization software. It has the same features from the Desktop Home Edition.

[Download](https://download.parrot.sh/parrot/iso/4.11.1/Parrot-home-4.11.1_virtual.ova.mirrorlist)

## Parrot 4.x Cloud Edition (x86 and x86_64) : ##
Forget all you know about pentesting circumstances, carrying a laptop everywhere you go to accomplish your job is not mandatory anymore.
You can now have a remote VPS loaded with ParrotOS ready to perform all sort of tasks from an embedded terminal, with discretion. 
This edition does not provide a GUI out of the box, but it's available in the repositories if needed.
There are two options:
Download the iso and installing it on your own machine;

[Download](https://parrotsec.org/virtual/)

## Security or Home edition, which one should i choose? ##

*Parrot Home Edition and Parrot Security Edition are identical, and the only difference between them is the set of software that comes pre-installed*.

Parrot OS Home Edition comes with no security tools, while Parrot OS Security Edition comes with all the hacking and pentest tools pre-installed.

You can install Parrot Home Edition and install only the hacking tools you actually need, or you can install all of them at once with `sudo apt install parrot-tools-full`